Exercise 1.7

1.	What is an Object Relational Mapper and what are the advantages of using one?

    A: An Object Relational Mapper is a tool that streamlines the creation and storage of data. It's useful for projects when you want to store predefined 
    data structures without knowing what data they will contain yet.

2.	By this point, you’ve finished creating your Recipe app. How did it go? What’s something in the app that you did well with? 
    If you were to start over, what’s something about your app that you would change or improve?

    A: I thought I formatted my UI components well as well as making my code easy to read and understand. I would however add even more error handling to make
    my code more resistant to issues or breaks in the code. 

3.	Imagine you’re at a job interview. You’re asked what experience you have creating an app using Python. 
    Taking your work for this Achievement as an example, draft how you would respond to this question.

    A: I have an adequate grasp of the core functonality of Python. I am able to use the built in functions and data types as well as create my own functions and handle possible errors
    that might arise. I've created several apps already using Python and available plugins. 
 
4.	You’ve finished Achievement 1! Before moving on to Achievement 2, take a moment to reflect on your learning in the course so far: 

    a.	What went well during this Achievement? 

        A: Python has been a very easy language to learn and ude throughout this achievement to create my projects. 

    b.	What’s something you’re proud of? 

        A: The final product for my recipe app

    c.	What was the most challenging aspect of this Achievement? 

        A: The final project with how many different functions and data types I had to impliment to make my app function properly without being error prone.

    d.	Did this Achievement meet your expectations? Did it give you the confidence to start working with your new Python skills?

        A: Yes it went very well, and I've used the knowledge I've gained from it to make other smaller projects as well to have a better grasp of the language.

    e.	What’s something you want to keep in mind to help you do your best in Achievement 2?

        A: I need to remember to comment throughout the coding process so my code is easier to understand as I go along. 